
NAME
       locate - find files by name

SYNOPSIS
       locate [OPTION]... PATTERN...

DESCRIPTION
       locate  reads  one or more databases prepared by updatedb(8) and writes
       file names matching at least one of the PATTERNs  to  standard  output,
       one per line.

       If  --regex is not specified, PATTERNs can contain globbing characters.
       If any PATTERN contains no globbing characters, locate  behaves  as  if
       the pattern were *PATTERN*.

       By default, locate does not check whether files found in database still
       exist (but it does require all parent directories to exist if the data‐
       base  was built with --require-visibility no).  locate can never report
       files created after the most recent update of the relevant database.

EXIT STATUS
       locate exits with status 0 if any match was  found  or  if  locate  was
       invoked  with  one  of the --limit 0, --help, --statistics or --version
       options.  If no match was found  or  a  fatal  error  was  encountered,
       locate exits with status 1.

       Errors  encountered while reading a database are not fatal, search con‐
       tinues in other specified databases, if any.

OPTIONS
       -A, --all
              Print only entries that match all PATTERNs instead of  requiring
              only one of them to match.

       -b, --basename
              Match  only  the base name against the specified patterns.  This
              is the opposite of --wholename.

       -c, --count
              Instead of writing file names on standard output, write the num‐
              ber of matching entries only.

       -d, --database DBPATH
              Replace  the  default database with DBPATH.  DBPATH is a :-sepa‐
              rated list of database file names.  If more than one  --database
              option  is  specified,  the resulting path is a concatenation of
              the separate paths.
 -h, --help
              Write a summary of the available options to standard output  and
              exit successfully.

